{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f5\froman\fcharset0 Times-BoldItalic;
\f6\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs56 The death of @LordArgentine\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
<!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f2\i Image of newspaper with headline \'93XYZ\'94 and a secondary headline that is dependent on the chaos meter
\f1\i0 \
The chief bombards you with a newspaper basically as you walk in the door. \'93You\'92ve SEEN THIS, RIGHT????\'94\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f3\b\fs36 Read the obituary\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
<!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f1 @LordArgentine was a great favorite on the internet. He had a rich dad but no trust fund. He scrapped together a living selling bullshit on his account, a few bucks here and there.\
All dads die eventually though, and so one morning Charles Aubernon woke up and found that @LordArgentine was no longer a handle, but the title of a wealthy man. The situation amused him immensely, and he resolved that riches should be as pleasant to him as \'93poverty\'94 had always been. Argentine, after some little consideration, came to the conclusion that dining, regarded as a fine art, was perhaps the most amusing pursuit open to fallen humanity, and thus his dinners became famous online, and an invitation to his table a thing covetously desired. \
After several years of lordship and dinners Argentine still declined to be jaded, still persisted in enjoying life, and by a kind of infection had become recognized as the cause of joy in others, in short, as the best of company. His sudden and tragical death therefore caused a wide and deep sensation. \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f3\b\fs26 Did you know this guy or something?\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::2>
\f4 @Chief: Do I look like I use the Webternet??? All I know is the whole lot of them are ALL SAUCED UP over this and their Shareholders basically own the force! Why don\'92t you ask your video-logger friend TK AUSTIN. Get this out of the papers and into the closed case files, Villiers!\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f3\b\fs26 Read the secondary article 
\f5\i (chaos meter allowing)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\i0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::2><!$Scr_Ps::2>
\f4 TK WILD SHIT\
Chaos +1\

\fs26 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f3\b\fs36 Ugh I thought we decided I was only on spooky cases now\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f4 @Chief: Do I look like I think literally anything is spooky??? The internet socialites are ALL SAUCED UP over this and their shareholders basically own the force! Get this out of the papers and into the closed case files, Villiers or you\'92re off the force!! \
\
The Chief thrusts the paper into your coffee. You use it to blot the spilled coffee unnecessarily off your black jacket. Through the bleeding ink you reluctantly read [above].\

\fs26 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f3\b\fs36 Pretend to read it, but actually read the secondary headline\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f4 TK WILD SHIT \
CHAOS +1\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::2><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f6\b\fs26 Option to read the actual article?
\f0\b0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::2><!$Scr_H::2>}