{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs56 You\'92re on the case!\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f2\i\fs26 \
Image of a bathroom mirror with August Villiers\'92 face looking haggard. The mirror is one of those dumb \'93smart\'94 mirrors with an electronic message from @Cheif on it.
\f3\i0 \
\
Good morning, Detective August Villiers. You\'92ve just finished up a really boring case for the bureau yesterday morning and maybe celebrated a teensy bit too hard last night at TK CLUB NAME. You\'92re known (but not really loved, per say)  at work for your paranormal investigations and you look really good in silhouette. Maybe you\'92re born with it, maybe it\'92s the hat and cape.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f4\b\fs36 Open the message from @theChief\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f3\fs26 VILLIERS\'96WE GOT ANOTHER SELF-ASSASINATION ON OUR HANDS, GET DOWN HERE NOW!!\
CRIMES -1 if this is your first choice\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f4\b\fs36 Smell your clothes from last night \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2\i\fs26 (only available if you choose it first)
\f3\i0 \
Your clothes from last night smell like someone else\'92s perfume\'97floral and earthy. You\'92d never call yourself an outdoorsperson, but it\'92s somehow intoxicating? You remember a lane of arching willow trees from your youth and everything seems a little bit fresher and greener. You try to remember the woman you danced with last night at TK CLUB NAME, but she eludes you. Maybe you followed her online?\
CHAOS +1\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f4\b\fs36 Go straight to work without brushing your teeth you filthy animal\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f3\fs26 Takes you to rabbit hole}